In this section we are going to learn how
to integrate vue js into our application.
We will create a lot of vue js components and
make them communicate with each other.
Since we have organized our views by breaking them
into small parts creating vue js component will
be much easier. Because all we have to do is rewrite a
single file into a vue js component and add some
javascript code to custom the component's behavior.
So when I say create a component in the section that
means we'll rewrite the code from blade file into
vue js file and then add some javascript
code to make it interactive.
So we will be start from the easiest part which
in this case is the author or user in for here.
Then we'll continue to create answer component
by utilizing vue js inline template. Then we'll create
favorite component
accept component and then vote component. After that
we'll create component to wrap all answers then
we will create a component to create new answer and
then we'll create question component and wrap all
components into a single big component.
So that's a broad overview of what we are going to
do in this section. And in this lesson we are going
to create a very basic vue component which is user info here.
So let's get started.
Let's switch over to our terminal
and then create new branch.
OK
we are isolated in new branch.
Now let's open shared
underscore author blade php
and here let's copy everything
and then we can go to
js components folder and here we'll find example
component dot vue file.  As the name implies this
file is just for example.
So in every single file component there will be
template tag to put our html code and then script
tag where we put our components logic and it can also has style tag
that contains our css rules that specific to the
current component. Here we don't need this style
So let's remove it.
And now we can create new file and
here let's call it instead of author
now I'll call it user info dot vue
I think the name is more descriptive and
it can describe what this component does.
But feel free to call it whatever you like.
Here let's define template tag and inside here just paste the code.
Now in a single file component there should be only
one parent element. While here we have two the span
and a div. So let's wrap both of these into a new div
Let's change this expression to post date
and we'll define that computed property.
Now in vue js version 2 we cannot longer
pass in a value to particular html attribute
using mustaches or string interpolation like these.
But instead we can use v bind directive like v-bind
or we can do it more simpler by removing v-bind
So just colon symbol followed by attribute name.
Let's also bind the source attribute in this image
and href in this anchor
and now we can select this hit control+d
or command+d in mac to select other instances
except of this one. Then hit backspace or delete key
and then let's also select this. Hit control+d to select
other instance except this one. Then hit backspace
or delete key. Next
let's change from php variable to
javascript variable. To make it less typing
let's call the user instance directly not from the model
so let's select these model user
then hit control+d or command+d to select other instances.
Alright
let's replace all of these with user dot
now let's define the script tag
and here let's specify props property. This property
receives a list of attributes that are exposed to
accept data from the parent component.
The value can be array or object but in this case
it will be array contains model and label.
So when we call this component outside we have
to pass in this model and label attributes like this
if you're not specify the model or label attribute
then the component will not work and will get error.
Next
let's also define computed property
this property allows us to avoid
blowing up the template with some extra logic
everything that we defined inside here are cached and
only recomputed when some of its dependencies
have changed.
Inside here let's define postDate method.
So remember we call it here.
Here I wrote the method in ES6 syntax
and you may write it in ES5 syntax like this.
So this one and this one are equally valid.
But here I prefer to use ES6 syntax
OK
Inside here we simply return the label that we pass in
from the parent component. Add a space and followed
by post creation date.
And the last
let's define data method.
Basically a component could be has its own states
and we can store that in this data method.
Inside this method will simply return
an object and inside this object
we define user property and the value will be this model user.
So remember in the template we call user dot URL
user name etc. And it should be defined here.
Basically
this simplify how we call the modal property.
So we don't need to call model user name or model
dot user not avatar in all places in this component.
All right to make this component visible in all
places in our application we can register it in
main javascript file which is app.js let's open that file
here we'll find require function that is intended
to import adjacent files bootstrap.js
Which in turn load other libraries including
lodash popper jquery bootstrap and axios.
and we also added require function to
load or import font awesome js file.
Now here we'll find require vue that import vue js
library and store it in window global object.
And here we'll find this line this tell vue to register the component globally.
In this case the custom tag will be
example-component and the company
itself loaded from components.
Example component dot vue. And the last
we can see how the vue js instantiated.
There is `el` property in the options which store the
element on the page where this vue instance should be
bound. Bu default
It would be app which refers to
here.
OK since we have removed the example component
dot vue and we just created user info component
so let's change the first argument to `user-info`. As a
note you can name your component with any name
you like except the existing valid
html tag name such as h1 through h6, section, main etc.
So please please please be careful when giving component name.
Don't use a valid HTML the tag name
because it will cause name collations.
Then in the second argument we can include our component components
user info
All right we have our first view just component
and we have registered it globally in app.js file
but before we actually use it we need to do something
called bundling or compiling our javascript code into
browser friendly code. To do that
let's switch over to a our terminal
then bundle or compile our javascript
code by saying `npm run dev`
or `npm run watch`
So if you remember in webpack.mix.js we will find this
lines which simply define which files that will be compiled
when we call `npm run dev` or `npm run watch`.
In this case app.js and app.scss file and the
output will be stored in public js and public
css